# Database


Store file directory trees in database -- easy for retrieve the file.
If we store directory in JSON, everytime we get a file it would scan over whole JSON, took a lot of time.
Database have it's optimization to get the file directory.



SQL & NoSQL: 

SQL: ex. MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, MSSQL, MariaDB

NoSQL: ex. MongoDB, Redis

SQL: traditional relational database, different database are connected by key value.



NoSQL: Non-relational database




Selection between SQL vs. NoSQL: Depends on what our data looks like.

Comparison of different attributes:

SQL database:
Strictly define description of structure of the database, including row, columns, index, keys. We have to define a strict schema in order to create a new database.
For the data that each columns type and value is strictly defined and different data table relationship is well defined, SQL database is good choice.
Allow SQL query for the data.

NoSQL database:
No description to define the structure, each data table have only one index as indicator. Could handle semi-structured data, like JSON. 
For the data that definition of columns are not clear or unstructured, NoSQL is suitable.
Query for NoSQL database is not easy as SQL database due to the flexible and different data type. Query for NoSQL database require preprocessing for the data, like MapReduce, XQuery, JSONiq...which may require data scientist or developers.

Scaling of database:
SQL database is designed for single server for integration, so it's not too easy to scale up. We have to add capacity on the same server to scale up the SQL database. Data storedin SQL database might have same type of schema(structure)
NoSQL database scale horizontally, we could add more server to scale up the database. NoSQL is scalable than SQL database. Due to unstructued data, files could be stored in separate servers without being linked. Data stored in NoSQL database might have different type of structure(image, text...). Stored data as type JSON.








For structured data: SQL database is suitable.


For Unstructured data: Like image, NoSQL database is better choice.

MongoDB:
  DB architecture:
     MongoDB server: multiple database
     Database: Psyhical container for multiple collection. 
     Collection: group of documents. Equalevant to RDBMS table. Don't need a schema.
     Documents: key-value pair. All documents in collection should have similar use. Dynamic schema: documents in same collection could have different fields or structure.
     

  Save data records as BSON documents: Binary representation of JSON format.
  
  BSON format: key-value like format
  {
    field: value,
    field: value
  }

  1. Install MongoDB
  2. Setup the DB location and log file directory on disk
  3. Build configuration file that indicates the DB location and log directory
  4. Go to bin path and setup DB path: mongod.exe --dbpath set_directory_for_db.  This may show up 'waiting for connection'
  5. Check up mongo is successfully installed: mongo.exe => open mongo shell
  
SQL database VS. MongoDB:
database         database
table            collection
row              document
column           field

  Step to create a database to store data: 
    Create database -> create collections -> create documents

  Create new collection: db.collection_name.insert()
  Create new of switch to the specific database to edit: use "database name"
  Query the collection in database: first 'use' indicate database, then 'find()': db.collection_name.find()
     Set up query condition: df.collection.find({"name":{condigion: value_condition}})
     
  1. use new_database
  
  2. database.createCollection(
         <name of collection>,
         {
           options: configurations to setup the documents for the collection
         }
  )
  
  
  Start using mongoDB:
  1. Start mongoDB server: mongod.exe --dbpath path
  2. Connect to DB server: mongo.exe
  Start!
  
   












